[« Back](https://jademoroes.github.io/essays/home)<br>
# An Inquiry on Childhood, Duality, & Nature<br>
When I was younger, I wanted to be seen by adults as an equal, whose thoughts were worthy of consideration. To my dismay, this desire was largely ignored, and I was looked down upon by those older than me— whether they be adults, or my peers. In European and American society, children are characterized as naïve, unintelligent, and innocent, spare the few children who have been proven otherwise, and afterwards sensationalized. <br>

However, children are capable of things that many adults aren't. Children seek to learn and expand their knowledge of their surroundings. They see things as they are, as they have not yet adopted the associations we, as adults, give to things. In Taoism, children are often mentioned as a perfect example of being in touch with Tao. Chapter 55 begins, "He who is in harmony with the Tao / is like a newborn child." Chapter 68 reads, "All of the embody / the virtue of non-competition. / Not that they don't love to compete, / but they do it in the spirit of play. / In this they are like children / and in harmony with the Tao." (Stephen Mitchell translation.)<br>

Human constructs often blind us from the beauty of nature. How can we appreciate the swans and wolves, and the way the water flows, while caught in the stress of responsibility, work, and politics? Children, who are (normally) removed from these facets of life, and who seek to learn, can more easily find enjoyment in their surroundings. However, there is a second facet to this: without the stress of responsibility, work, and politics, what would motivate us to enjoy our surroundings more?<br>

In this example, we see intrinsic duality. As a Buddhist might put it, without suffering, there is no path to release: no journey, and no growth. In Abrahamic texts, many prophets are depicted as suffering a great deal throughout their lives, and through suffering, they learn generosity and benevolence. It is also a common theme in popular culture and world mythology.<br>

In reflection of duality, nature is not only the ducks and butterflies at the pond— it grows fruit, yes, but it is also the predator and prey, the wolf and deer, the raging tornado and hurricane, the cycle of death and rebirth. Nature is harsh, and many ancient cultures reflect this, such as in the sanctity of boundaries between civilization and wilderness in Norse culture.<br>

Children, similarly, are dual. While many (but, of course, not all) are free of labels and constructed baggage, they lack the understanding of intrinsic suffering. Young children sometimes find it difficult to conceive concepts such as death. Growing pains are not only physical, but mental. Part of growing up is experiencing, learning, and becoming more wise of suffering-- and it hurts. But, through suffering, we create bonds, extend our arms, and learn to accept the unity of perceived duality.<br>

Ultimately, adults have much to learn from children, and children have much to learn from adults, yet it all lands in the same place— without joy, there is no suffering; without suffering, there is no joy. Within black, there is white, and within white, there is black, constantly shifting and ever-changing. Truly, there is no black and white, but a vast sea of grey, which we colour with our own eyes. We extend our bodies over the blank canvas and look down at our shadows, seeing them as a black and white painting, when truly the canvas is blank below the light of our own perception.<br>
